At Isaiah 40 verses 4 and 5, Jehovah says he would remove seemingly insurmountable obstacles
so the Jews could return to Jerusalem.
The account says, let every valley be raised up and every mountain and hill be made low.
The rough ground must become level and the rugged ground of valley plain.
The glory of Jehovah will be revealed and all flesh will see it together for the mouth
of Jehovah has spoken.
This inspiring prophecy was initially fulfilled in 537 BCE.
There is nothing that can stand in the way of what Jehovah wants accomplished.
In this report, we will seek clear evidence of Jehovah's support on theocratic projects
today.
Despite a pandemic, supply chain shortages and other challenges.
For example, the February 2020 announcement featured in the JW newsroom informed us that
the Cameroon Branch Relocation Project finished shortly before the outbreak of COVID-19.
Just in time, the Bethel family had a home where they could safely shelter in place during
the pandemic and still care for the Kingdom work and more than 48,000 publishers in that
branch territory.
The Argentina Bethel family also moved into their new branch facility in Buenos Aires shortly
thereafter.
The move which was organized in compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols began in July
2021.
The Bethel family saw numerous examples of Jehovah leveling out overwhelming challenges
during the pandemic.
A successful completion of the new branch facilities in the midst of that turmoil has already
given a great witness to the community.
It has allowed the Bethel family to focus on caring for close to 170,000 publishers in
that branch territory.
What a blessing to have these new facilities to support the Kingdom Preaching Work.
What about projects happening right now?
Listen closely as we hear updates from brothers in Italy, Congo and Angola.
The Italy branch is relocating its facilities to the city of Bologna in Northern Italy,
which is located about 370 kilometers or 230 miles from Rome.
Initially, the construction project committee wanted to use her brothers and sisters as volunteers.
However, at a certain point, it was decided to rely on an outside development company, both
for the design and renovation of the office building that was purchased, as well as for
the design and construction of the residential buildings.
When this decision was made, we did not imagine that a few months afterwards we would not
be able to use our volunteers.
Because at the beginning of 2020, COVID-19 struck Northern Italy, including the city of Bologna.
As a consequence, the government suspended activities, including construction.
After about one month, they lifted the restrictions.
And as a result, we could get back in touch with the companies and continue the work, while
respecting government protocol and direction from our organization.
Thanks to Jehovah's direction, despite the pandemic, we are happy to see how this project
is moving forward much faster than we expected.
And we look forward to being able to move into these new buildings by the end of 2024.
In 2012, we had a little over 168,000 publishers in our branch territory.
By the end of 2021, the total number of publishers grew to more than 209,000 publishers.
Because it was in practical to expand the branch facility in Kinchasa, we looked for
a property that could care for the immediate and future needs of the branch.
We purchased property in the country's second largest city, Lubumbashi, where a developer
was already building housing and office units.
The developer already had the zoning, permits, and completed design packages.
This saved much time and allowed the projects to move ahead with minimal disruption, even
during the pandemic.
And we were happy for that.
For the internal work of the new offices, we needed a contractor who could design and
install to the standards of our organization, and within the project budget.
We knew this would be hard to find in Congo, and even harder with the limitations of the
pandemic.
One of the suppliers that we use for food and relief supplies in the area, mentioned
to us that they have a partner company who specializes in construction and is newly
active in the country.
We didn't expect that the answer to this challenge would come from this unusual direction.
But we were surprised to find that they did in fact qualify to meet the high standards
and expectations of such a branch project.
As the relationship grew, we saw fine collaboration between our teams, and they continue to work
along with us now as the project expands.
We truly have seen Jehovah smoothing out the path for this project.
We have already started moving some Bethelites to this new site, and look forward to the
project's completion in mid-2024.
In December 2021, a building was purchased that will provide additional rooms and offices
for the Bethel family at our branch.
This building is located about a 10-minute walk from the current Bethel facility.
Because of the restrictions imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the entire process for the acquisition
of this building, even including the verification of the legal aspects, had to be done by video
conference.
During the last week of the negotiation process, when there were just five days remaining
to sign the purchase and sale agreement, and during a stage in which the negotiation
team from the branch in the seller had already agreed on the purchase and sale price,
we discovered that the structure of the building needed some repairs and reinforcements in
some areas.
How did the team negotiating the purchase handle this obstacle?
The seller was asked to take responsibility for the repairs, and to reinforce the building
structure, closely following the engineering details that would be provided by the branch.
After several prayers by the branch's negotiation team, the seller accepted the responsibility,
and even paid for all the expenses involved in this repair.
The repair was completed, and shortly after, the work to completely renovate the building
began.
We look forward to seeing some of the Bethel family move into this new building in early
2024.
In addition to these new branch facilities, we also have many other needs to fill.
For example, in order to train brothers and sisters to carry out the preaching and
teaching work, there continues to be a need for theocratic school facilities.
In Madagascar, the branch hosted classes at Bethel because they didn't have any other
suitable facilities.
Well in June 2021, they finished construction of a new school facility, and will now be
able to schedule up to four classes there each year.
Currently, there are over 40 existing school facilities, and we have around 20 active school
facility projects at various stages of development.
What about facilities to support the growing media production of the organization?
We're happy to report that we have finished the studio projects at the South Africa and
Australasia branches.
In Australasia, that includes the backlog that is used for the good news according to
Jesus' video series.
Soon, if Jehovah wills, we will begin construction on the new site in Ramippo, New York.
We look forward to seeing how Jehovah uses this facility to care for the needs of his
people.
It is clear that neither the pandemic nor ongoing turmoil in this world has been able
to stop theocratic building projects.
And as world conditions continue to deteriorate, we are confident that the words of Isaiah 44
and 5 will be true for us.
Yes, Jehovah will help us overcome any mountain-like obstacles that we face.
We earnestly pray for Jehovah to bless these and future building projects.
And we thank you, dear brothers and sisters, for supporting them by means of your
prayers, skills, time, and resources.
May all praise and glory go to our great God, Jehovah, who continues to clear the way for
us.